README.adoc, before:

:maven-metadata: plugins.gradle.org/m2/gradle/plugin/org/gradle/plugins/gradle-site-plugin
:travis: https://travis-ci.org/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin
:gradle-plugins-portal: https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/gradle.site


= Gradle Site Plugin image:{travis}.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="{travis}"] image:https://img.shields.io/badge/build-scan-green.svg["Build Scan", link="https://gradle.com/s/thgfe3dxihijo"] image:https://img.shields.io/maven-metadata/v/https/{maven-metadata}/maven-metadata.xml.svg?label=gradlePluginPortal["Maven Central",link="{gradle-plugins-portal}"]


A sample Gradle plugin demonstrating established techniques and practices for plugin development as described in the following guides:

- link:https://guides.gradle.org/designing-gradle-plugins/[Designing Gradle plugins]
- link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/[Implementing Gradle plugins]
- link:https://guides.gradle.org/testing-gradle-plugins/[Testing Gradle plugins]

== Functionality

The plugin provides a task for generating a web page that derives information about the project e.g. applied plugins and available tasks. While minimalistic in functionality it serves as a show case for demonstrating best practices for Gradle plugin development. A site generated for this project can be link:https://gradle-guides.github.io/gradle-site-plugin/[viewed here].

TIP: The plugin is link:{gradle-plugins-portal}[available on the Gradle plugin portal] for public consumption.

== Usage example

The plugin can be applied with by identifier `gradle.site`. Default values can be configured with the help of the provided extension `org.gradle.plugins.site.SitePluginExtension`. To generate the web page run the task named `generateSite` e.g. `gradle generateSiteHtml`.

IMPORTANT: The plugin requires a Gradle version of 4.0 or higher. All features that are based on Gradle 4.0 are explicitly
marked above. All other features will work with earlier versions of Gradle.

```
plugins {
    id("gradle.site").version("0.6")
}

site {
    outputDir.set(file("$rootDir/docs"))
    websiteUrl.set("https://mysite.com")
    vcsUrl.set("https://github.com/my/repo.git")
}
```

== Applied techniques and practices

- Production and test code written in Kotlin.
- Reusable logic written as binary plugin.
- Usage of the Plugin Development plugin to simplify plugin development. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/build.gradle.kts#L6[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/#plugin-development-plugin[More Details]]
- Implementation of tasks as custom task type. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/main/kotlin/org/gradle/plugins/site/tasks/SiteGenerate.kt[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/#writing-and-using-custom-task-types[More Details]]
- Usage of input and output properties to enable incremental tasks. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/main/kotlin/org/gradle/plugins/site/tasks/SiteGenerate.kt[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/#benefiting_from_incremental_tasks[More Details]]
- Usage of an extension to capture user-configurable values. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/main/kotlin/org/gradle/plugins/site/SitePlugin.kt#L33[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/designing-gradle-plugins/#convention_over_configuration[More Details]]
- Mapping of extension property values to custom task properties. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/main/kotlin/org/gradle/plugins/site/SitePlugin.kt#L74-L76[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/#capturing_user_input_to_configure_plugin_runtime_behavior[More Details]] image:https://img.shields.io/badge/4.0-feature-blue.svg[4.0 feature]
- Reacting to plugins instead of applying plugins. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/main/kotlin/org/gradle/plugins/site/SitePlugin.kt#L64[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/#reacting_to_plugins[More Details]]
- Declaration of appropriate plugin identifiers. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/main/resources/META-INF/gradle-plugins/gradle.site.properties[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/#assigning_appropriate_plugin_identifiers[More Details]]
- Functional testing with TestKit. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/intTest/kotlin/org/gradle/plugins/site/SitePluginFunctionalTest.kt[Code] | link:https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/test_kit.html[More Details]]
- Publication of the plugin artifacts to the Gradle plugin portal [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/build.gradle.kts#L136-L163[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/publishing-plugins-to-gradle-plugin-portal/[More Details]]
- Continuous Integration of plugin code with link:https://travis-ci.org/[Travis CI]. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/.travis.yml[Code] | More Details]
- Automatic generation of build scans when build is executed from CI. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/build.gradle.kts#L25-L33[Code] | link:https://scans.gradle.com/[More Details]]

Commit message:

temporary fix a for broken link
Generated site is not located at https://gradle-guides.github.io/gradle-site-plugin/ any longer.
A not regarding the existing issue has been added to the README file.
The link has not been removed as this way it will be easier to fix it later, for the next contributor.

README.adoc, after:

:maven-metadata: plugins.gradle.org/m2/gradle/plugin/org/gradle/plugins/gradle-site-plugin
:travis: https://travis-ci.org/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin
:gradle-plugins-portal: https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/gradle.site


= Gradle Site Plugin image:{travis}.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="{travis}"] image:https://img.shields.io/badge/build-scan-green.svg["Build Scan", link="https://gradle.com/s/thgfe3dxihijo"] image:https://img.shields.io/maven-metadata/v/https/{maven-metadata}/maven-metadata.xml.svg?label=gradlePluginPortal["Maven Central",link="{gradle-plugins-portal}"]


A sample Gradle plugin demonstrating established techniques and practices for plugin development as described in the following guides:

- link:https://guides.gradle.org/designing-gradle-plugins/[Designing Gradle plugins]
- link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/[Implementing Gradle plugins]
- link:https://guides.gradle.org/testing-gradle-plugins/[Testing Gradle plugins]

== Functionality

The plugin provides a task for generating a web page that derives information about the project e.g. applied plugins and available tasks. While minimalistic in functionality it serves as a show case for demonstrating best practices for Gradle plugin development. A site generated for this project used to be located at, but doesn't work any more:link:https://gradle-guides.github.io/gradle-site-plugin/[ returns 404].

TIP: The plugin is link:{gradle-plugins-portal}[available on the Gradle plugin portal] for public consumption.

== Usage example

The plugin can be applied with by identifier `gradle.site`. Default values can be configured with the help of the provided extension `org.gradle.plugins.site.SitePluginExtension`. To generate the web page run the task named `generateSite` e.g. `gradle generateSiteHtml`.

IMPORTANT: The plugin requires a Gradle version of 4.0 or higher. All features that are based on Gradle 4.0 are explicitly
marked above. All other features will work with earlier versions of Gradle.

```
plugins {
    id("gradle.site").version("0.6")
}

site {
    outputDir.set(file("$rootDir/docs"))
    websiteUrl.set("https://mysite.com")
    vcsUrl.set("https://github.com/my/repo.git")
}
```

== Applied techniques and practices

- Production and test code written in Kotlin.
- Reusable logic written as binary plugin.
- Usage of the Plugin Development plugin to simplify plugin development. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/build.gradle.kts#L6[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/#plugin-development-plugin[More Details]]
- Implementation of tasks as custom task type. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/main/kotlin/org/gradle/plugins/site/tasks/SiteGenerate.kt[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/#writing-and-using-custom-task-types[More Details]]
- Usage of input and output properties to enable incremental tasks. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/main/kotlin/org/gradle/plugins/site/tasks/SiteGenerate.kt[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/#benefiting_from_incremental_tasks[More Details]]
- Usage of an extension to capture user-configurable values. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/main/kotlin/org/gradle/plugins/site/SitePlugin.kt#L33[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/designing-gradle-plugins/#convention_over_configuration[More Details]]
- Mapping of extension property values to custom task properties. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/main/kotlin/org/gradle/plugins/site/SitePlugin.kt#L74-L76[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/#capturing_user_input_to_configure_plugin_runtime_behavior[More Details]] image:https://img.shields.io/badge/4.0-feature-blue.svg[4.0 feature]
- Reacting to plugins instead of applying plugins. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/main/kotlin/org/gradle/plugins/site/SitePlugin.kt#L64[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/#reacting_to_plugins[More Details]]
- Declaration of appropriate plugin identifiers. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/main/resources/META-INF/gradle-plugins/gradle.site.properties[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/implementing-gradle-plugins/#assigning_appropriate_plugin_identifiers[More Details]]
- Functional testing with TestKit. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/src/intTest/kotlin/org/gradle/plugins/site/SitePluginFunctionalTest.kt[Code] | link:https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/test_kit.html[More Details]]
- Publication of the plugin artifacts to the Gradle plugin portal [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/build.gradle.kts#L136-L163[Code] | link:https://guides.gradle.org/publishing-plugins-to-gradle-plugin-portal/[More Details]]
- Continuous Integration of plugin code with link:https://travis-ci.org/[Travis CI]. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/.travis.yml[Code] | More Details]
- Automatic generation of build scans when build is executed from CI. [link:https://github.com/gradle-guides/gradle-site-plugin/blob/master/build.gradle.kts#L25-L33[Code] | link:https://scans.gradle.com/[More Details]]
